hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--"Pat! Pat! Where are you?" And
then a voice she had never heard before, "Sure then I'm here! Digging
for apples, yer honour!"

"Digging for apples, indeed!" said the Rabbit angrily. "Here! Come and
help me out of _this_!" (Sounds of more broken glass.)

"Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?"

"Sure, it's an arm, yer honour." (He pronounced it "arrum.")

"An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole
window!"

"Sure, it does, yer honour? but it's an arm for all that."

"Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!"

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as, "Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!" "Do as I tell you, you coward!" and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
_two_ little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. "What a number of
cucumber-frames there must be!" thought Alice. "I wonder what they'll do
next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they _could_!
I'm sure _I_ don't want to stay in here any longer!"

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cart-wheels, and the sound of a good many voices all
talking together: she made out the words: "Where's the other
ladder?--Why I hadn't to bring but one; Bill's got the other--Bill!
Fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up at this corner--No, tie 'em
together first--they don't reach half high enough yet--Oh! they'll do
well enough; don't be particular--Here, Bill! catch hold of this
rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!
Heads below!" (a loud crash)--"Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I
fancy--Who's to go down the chimney?--Nay, _I_ sha'n't! _You_ do
it!--_That_ I won't, then! Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master
says you've to go down the chimney!"

"Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?" said Alice to
herself. "Why, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in
Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but
I _think_ I can kick a little!"

She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till
she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself "This is Bill," she gave one sharp kick, and waited to
see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of "There goes Bill!"
then the Rabbit's voice alone--"Catch him, you by the hedge!" then
silence, and then another confusion of voices--"Hold up his head--Brandy
now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
us all about it!"

At last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ("That's Bill," thought
Alice,) "Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm
a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know is, something comes at me
like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!"

"So you did, old fellow!" said the others.

"We must burn the house down!" said the Rabbit's voice. And Alice
called out as loud as she could, "If you do, I'll set Dinah at you!"

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself "I
wonder what they _will_ do next! If they had any sense, they'd take the
roof off." After a minute or two they began moving about again, and
Alice heard the Rabbit say "A barrowful will do, to begin with."

"A barrowful of _what_?" thought Alice. But she had not long to doubt,
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window, and some of them hit her in the face. "I'll put a stop to this,"
she said to herself, and shouted out "You'd better not do that again!"
which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
head. "If I eat one of these cakes," she thought, "it's sure to make
_some_ change in my size; and, as it can't possibly make me larger, it
must make me smaller, I suppose."

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through
the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in
the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood.

"The first thing I've got to do," said Alice to herself, as she wandered
about in the wood, "is to grow to my right size again; and the second
thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be
the best plan."

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea
how to set about it; and, while she was peering about anxiously among
the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. "Poor little
thing!" said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to
it; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it
might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in
spite of all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and, the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a little
way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the
while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its
tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and
till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance.

"And yet what a dear little puppy it was!" said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
leaves. "I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if--if I'd
only been the right size to do it! Oh, dear! I'd nearly forgotten that
I've got to grow up again! Let me see--how _is_ it to be managed? I
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
question is, what?"

The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she could not see anything that
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
herself; and, when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on the top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large blue
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly
smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of
anything else.




CHAPTER V


[Sidenote: _Advice from a Caterpillar_]

THE Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some
time in silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

"Who are _you_?" said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly, "I hardly know, sir, just at present--at least I know who
I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed
several times since then."

"What do you mean by that?" said the Caterpillar sternly. "Explain
yourself!"

"I can't explain _myself_, I'm afraid, sir," said Alice, "because I'm
not myself, you see."

"I don't see," said the Caterpillar.

"I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly," Alice replied very politely,
"for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
different sizes in a day is very confusing."

"It isn't," said the Caterpillar.

"Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet," said Alice, "but when you
have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you know--and then
after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little
queer, won't you?"

"Not a bit," said the Caterpillar.

"Well, perhaps your feelings may be different," said Alice; "all I know
is, it would feel very queer to _me_."

"You!" said the Caterpillar contemptuously. "Who are _you_?"

Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such _very_
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, "I think
you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first."

"Why?" said the Caterpillar.

[Illustration: _Advice from a Caterpillar_]

Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a _very_
unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

"Come back!" the Caterpillar called after her. "I've something important
to say!"

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

"Keep your temper," said the Caterpillar.

"Is that all?" said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
could.

"No," said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some
minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its
arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, "So you think
you're changed, do you?"

"I'm afraid I am, sir," said Alice; "I can't remember things as I
used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!"

"Can't remember _what_ things?" said the Caterpillar.

"Well, I've tried to say '_How doth the little busy bee_,' but it all
came different!" Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

"Repeat '_You are old, Father William_,'" said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:--

          "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
            "And your hair has become very white;
          And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
            Do you think, at your age, it is right?"

          "In my youth," Father William replied to his son,
            "I feared it might injure the brain;
          But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
            Why, I do it again and again."

          "You are old," said the youth, "as I mentioned before,
            And have grown most uncommonly fat;
          Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
            Pray, what is the reason of that?"

          "In my youth," said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
            "I kept all my limbs very supple
          By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
            Allow me to sell you a couple?"

          "You are old," said the youth, "and your jaws are too weak
            For anything tougher than suet;
          Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
            Pray, how did you manage to do it?"

          "In my youth," said his father, "I took to the law
            And argued each case with my wife;
          And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
            Has lasted the rest of my life."

          "You are old," said the youth, "one would hardly suppose
            That your eye was as steady as ever;
          Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
            What made you so awfully clever?"

          "I have answered three questions, and that is enough,"
            Said his father; "don't give yourself airs!
          Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
            Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!"

"That is not said right," said the Caterpillar.

"Not _quite_ right, I'm afraid," said Alice, timidly; "some of the
words have got altered."

"It is wrong from beginning to end," said the Caterpillar, decidedly,
and there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

"What size do you want to be?" it asked.

"Oh, I'm not particular as to size," Alice hastily replied; "only one
doesn't like changing so often, you know."

"I _don't_ know," said the Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in all her
life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

"Are you content now?" said the Caterpillar.

"Well, I should like to be a _little_ larger, sir, if you wouldn't
mind," said Alice: "three inches is such a wretched height to be."

"It is a very good height indeed!" said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing
itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).

"But I'm not used to it!" pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she
thought to herself, "I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily
offended!"

"You'll get used to it in time," said the Caterpillar; and it put its
hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a
minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and
yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the
mushroom, and crawled away into the grass, merely remarking as it went,
"One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you
grow shorter."

"One side of _what_? The other side of _what_?" thought Alice to
herself.

"Of the mushroom," said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying
to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly
round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she
stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit
of the edge with each hand.

"And now which is which?" she said to herself, and nibbled a little of
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent
blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!

[Illustration]

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
left-hand bit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come, my head's free at last!" said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

"What _can_ all that green stuff be?" said Alice. "And where have my
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I ca'n't see you?"
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she
tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her
neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had
just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going
to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops
of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made
her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and
was beating her violently with its wings.

"Serpent!" screamed the Pigeon.

"I'm _not_ a serpent!" said Alice indignantly. "Let me alone!"

"Serpent, I say again!" repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone,
and added with a kind of a sob, "I've tried every way, and nothing seems
to suit them!"

"I haven't the least idea what you're talking about," said Alice.

"I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried
hedges," the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; "but those
serpents! There's no pleasing them!"

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

"As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs," said the Pigeon;
"but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!"

"I'm very sorry you've been annoyed," said Alice, who was beginning to
see its meaning.

[Illustration]

"And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood," continued the
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, "and just as I was thinking I
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from
the sky! Ugh, Serpent!"

"But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you!" said Alice. "I'm a---- I'm a
----"

"Well! _What_ are you?" said the Pigeon. "I can see you're trying to
invent something!"

"I--I'm a little girl," said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through that day.

"A likely story indeed!" said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt. "I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never
_one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no
use denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never
tasted an egg!"

"I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly," said Alice, who was a very truthful
child; "but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
know."

"I don't believe it," said the Pigeon; "but if they do, why then
they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say."

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, "You're
looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to
me whether you're a little girl or a serpent?"

"It matters a good deal to _me_," said Alice hastily; "but I'm not
looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want _yours_:
I don't like them raw."

"Well, be off, then!" said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as
she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she
remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and
she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual. "Come, there's half my plan done
now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going
to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right
size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how _is_
that to be done, I wonder?" As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. "Whoever
lives there," thought Alice, "it'll never do to come upon them _this_
size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!" So she began
nibbling at the right-hand bit again, and did not venture to go near the
house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.




CHAPTER VI


[Sidenote: _Pig and Pepper_]

FOR a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he
was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have
called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It
was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face and large
eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair
that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it
was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone, "For the Duchess. An invitation from the
Queen to play croquet." The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn
tone, only changing the order of the words a little, "From the Queen. An
invitation for the Duchess to play croquet."

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
for fear of their hearing her; and, when she next peeped out, the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door and knocked.

"There's no use in knocking," said the Footman, "and that for two
reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are;
secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you." And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

"Please, then," said Alice, "how am I to get in?"

"There might be some sense in your knocking," the Footman went on
without attending to her, "if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
know." He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. "But perhaps he can't help it,"
she said to herself: "his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his
head. But at any rate he might answer questions. How am I to get in?"
she repeated aloud.

"I shall sit here," the Footman remarked, "till to-morrow----"

At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

"----or next day, maybe," the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

"How am I to get in?" asked Alice again in a louder tone.

"_Are_ you to get in at all?" said the Footman. "That's the first
question, you know."

[Illustration]

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. "It's really
dreadful," she muttered to herself, "the way all the creatures argue.
It's enough to drive one crazy!"

The Footman seemed to consider this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. "I shall sit here," he said, "on and off, for
days and days."

"But what am _I_ to do?" said Alice.

"Anything you like," said the Footman, and began whistling.

"Oh, there's no use in talking to him," said Alice desperately: "he's
perfectly idiotic!" And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
the middle, nursing a baby, the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

"There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!" Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally; and the baby was sneezing and howling alternately without
a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze,
were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and
grinning from ear to ear.

"Please would you tell me," said Alice a little timidly, for she was not
quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, "why your
cat grins like that?"

"It's a Cheshire cat," said the Duchess, "and that's why. Pig!"

She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:

"I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats _could_ grin."

"They all can," said the Duchess; "and most of 'em do."

"I don't know of any that do," Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation.

"You don't know much," said the Duchess; "and that's a fact."

Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby--the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

"Oh, _please_ mind what you're doing!" cried Alice, jumping up and down
in an agony of terror. "Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose"; as an
unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it
off.

"If everybody minded their own business," the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, "the world would go round a deal faster than it does."

[Illustration: _An unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off_]

"Which would _not_ be an advantage," said Alice, who felt very glad to
get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. "Just think
what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth
takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis----"

"Talking of axes," said the Duchess, "chop off her head."

Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
the hint; but the cook was busily engaged in stirring the soup, and did
not seem to be listening, so she ventured to go on again: "Twenty-four
hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I----"

"Oh, don't bother _me_," said the Duchess; "I never could abide
figures!" And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a
sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at
the end of every line:

          "Speak roughly to your little boy,
            And beat him when he sneezes:
          He only does it to annoy,
            Because he knows it teases."

CHORUS

          (In which the cook and the baby joined):
          "Wow! wow! wow!"

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing
the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so,
that Alice could hardly hear the words:

          "I speak severely to my boy,
            I beat him when he sneezes;
          For he can thoroughly enjoy
            The pepper when he pleases!"

          CHORUS.

          "Wow! wow! wow!"

"Here! you may nurse it a bit if you like!" the Duchess said to Alice,
flinging the baby at her as she spoke. "I must go and get ready to play
croquet with the Queen," and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw
a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, "just
like a star-fish," thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting
like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and
straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute
or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.

As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to
twist it up into a knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and
left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it out into
the open air. "If I don't take this child away with me," thought Alice,
"they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be murder to leave
it behind?" She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time). "Don't grunt,"
said Alice; "that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself."

The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to
see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a
_very_ turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its
eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not
like the look of the thing at all. "But perhaps it was only sobbing,"
she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any
tears.

No, there were no tears. "If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear,"
said Alice, seriously, "I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
now!" The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself, "Now, what am I to do with
this creature when I get it home?" when it grunted again, so violently,
that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could
be _no_ mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and
she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it any further.

So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it
trot quietly away into the wood. "If it had grown up," she said to
herself, "it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes
rather a handsome pig, I think." And she began thinking over other
children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying
to herself, "if one only knew the right way to change them----" when she
was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a
tree a few yards off.

[Illustration: _It grunted again so violently that she looked down into
its face in some alarm_]

The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
thought: still it had _very_ long claws and a great many teeth, so she
felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

[Illustration]

"Cheshire Puss," she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider.
"Come, it's pleased so far," thought Alice, and she went on. "Would you
tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"

"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to," said the Cat.

"I don't much care where----" said Alice.

"Then it doesn't matter which way you go," said the Cat.

"---- so long as I get _somewhere_," Alice added as an explanation.

"Oh, you're sure to do that," said the Cat, "if you only walk long
enough."

Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question.
"What sort of people live about here?"

"In _that_ direction," the Cat said, waving its right paw round, "lives
a Hatter: and in _that_ direction," waving the other paw, "lives a March
Hare. Visit either you like: they're both mad."

"But I don't want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.

"Oh, you ca'n't help that," said the Cat: "we're all mad here. I'm mad.
You're mad."

"How do you know I'm mad?" said Alice.

"You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn't have come here."

Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on. "And how
do you know that you're mad?"

"To begin with," said the Cat, "a dog's not mad. You grant that?"

"I suppose so," said Alice.

"Well, then," the Cat went on, "you see a dog growls when it's angry,
and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now _I_ growl when I'm pleased, and
wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad."

"_I_ call it purring, not growling," said Alice.

"Call it what you like," said the Cat. "Do you play croquet with the
Queen to-day?"

"I should like it very much," said Alice, "but I haven't been invited
yet."

"You'll see me there," said the Cat and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again.

"By-the-bye, what became of the baby?" said the Cat. "I'd nearly
forgotten to ask."

"It turned into a pig," Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
in a natural way.

"I thought it would," said the Cat, and vanished again.

Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in
which the March Hare was said to live. "I've seen hatters before," she
said to herself; "the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and
perhaps as this is May, it won't be raving mad--at least not so mad as
it was in March." As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat
again, sitting on the branch of a tree.

"Did you say pig, or fig?" said the Cat.

"I said pig," replied Alice; "and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and
vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy."

"All right," said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which
remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

"Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin," thought Alice; "but a grin
without a cat! It's the most curious thing I ever saw in all my life."

[Illustration]

She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of
the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the
chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
nibbled some more of the left-hand bit of mushroom, and raised herself,
to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather
timidly, saying to herself, "Suppose it should be raving mad after all!
I almost wish I'd gone to see the Hatter instead!"




CHAPTER VII


[Sidenote: _A Mad Tea-party_]

THERE was a table set out under a tree in front of the
house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were
using it as a cushion resting their elbows on it, and talking over its
head. "Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," thought Alice; "only as
it's asleep, suppose it doesn't mind."

The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at
one corner of it. "No room! No room!" they cried out when they saw Alice
coming. "There's _plenty_ of room!" said Alice indignantly, and she sat
down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

"Have some wine," the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
"I don't see any wine," she remarked.

"There isn't any," said the March Hare.

"Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it," said Alice angrily.

"It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited," said
the March Hare.

"I didn't know it was _your_ table," said Alice; "it's laid for a great
many more than three."

"Your hair wants cutting," said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice
for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.

"You should learn not to make personal remarks," Alice said with some
severity; "it's very rude."

The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he _said_
was "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?"

"Come, we shall have some fun now!" thought Alice. "I'm glad they've
begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that," she added aloud.

"Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?" said
the March Hare.

"Exactly so," said Alice.

"Then you should say what you mean," the March Hare went on.

"I do," Alice hastily replied; "at least--at least I mean what I
say--that's the same thing, you know."

"Not the same thing a bit!" said the Hatter. "Why, you might just as
well say that 'I see what I eat' is the same thing as 'I eat what I
see'!"

"You might just as well say," added the March Hare, "that 'I like what I
get' is the same thing as 'I get what I like'!"

"You might just as well say," added the Dormouse, which seemed to be
talking in his sleep, "that 'I breathe when I sleep' is the same thing
as 'I sleep when I breathe'!"

"It _is_ the same thing with you," said the Hatter; and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice
thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks,
which wasn't much.

[Illustration: _A Mad Tea Party_]

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. "What day of the month
is it?" he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
and holding it to his ear.

Alice considered a little, and then said "The fourth."

"Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter. "I told you butter would not suit
the works!" he added, looking angrily at the March Hare.

"It was the _best_ butter," the March Hare meekly replied.

"Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled:
"you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife."

The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
nothing better to say than his first remark, "It was the _best_ butter,
you know."

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. "What a
funny watch!" she remarked. "It tells the day of the month, and doesn't
tell what o'clock it is!"

"Why should it?" muttered the Hatter. "Does _your_ watch tell you what
year it is?"

"Of course not," Alice replied very readily: "but that's because it
stays the same year for such a long time together."

"Which is just the case with _mine_," said the Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no
meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. "I don't quite
understand," she said, as politely as she could.

"The Dormouse is asleep again," said the Hatter, and he poured a little
hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes, "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself."

"Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to Alice
again.

"No, I give it up," Alice replied: "what's the answer?"

"I haven't the slightest idea," said the Hatter.

"Nor I," said the March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily. "I think you might do something better with the
time," she said, "than wasting it asking riddles with no answers."

"If you knew Time as well as I do," said the Hatter, "you wouldn't talk
about wasting _it_. It's _him_."

"I don't know what you mean," said Alice.

"Of course you don't!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
"I daresay you never spoke to Time!"

"Perhaps not," Alice cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time
when I learn music."

"Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter. "He won't stand beating.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything
you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in
the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a
hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
time for dinner!"

("I only wish it was," the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)

"That would be grand, certainly," said Alice thoughtfully: "but then--I
shouldn't be hungry for it, you know."

"Not at first, perhaps," said the Hatter: "but you could keep it to
half-past one as long as you liked."

"Is that the way _you_ manage?" Alice asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. "Not I!" he replied. "We
quarrelled last March----just before _he_ went mad, you know----"
(pointing with his teaspoon to the March Hare), "it was at the great
concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

          'Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
          How I wonder what you're at!'

You know that song, perhaps?"

"I've heard something like it," said Alice.

"It goes on, you know," the Hatter continued, "in this way:--

          'Up above the world you fly,
          Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                      Twinkle, twinkle----'"

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
"_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_----" and went on so long that they
had to pinch it to make it stop.

"Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse," said the Hatter, "when the
Queen jumped up and bawled out 'He's murdering the time! Off with his
head!'"

"How dreadfully savage!" exclaimed Alice.

"And ever since that," the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, "he won't
do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now."

A bright idea came into Alice's head. "Is that the reason so many
tea-things are put out here?" she asked.

"Yes, that's it," said the Hatter with a sigh: "it's always tea-time,
and we've no time to wash the things between whiles."

"Then you keep moving round, I suppose?" said Alice.

"Exactly so," said the Hatter: "as the things get used up."

"But what happens when you come to the beginning again?" Alice ventured
to ask.

"Suppose we change the subject," the March Hare interrupted, yawning.
"I'm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story."

"I'm afraid I don't know one," said Alice, rather alarmed at the
proposal.

"Then the Dormouse shall!" they both cried. "Wake up, Dormouse!" And
they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. "I wasn't asleep," he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice: "I heard every word you fellows were saying."
